Added documentation for logging API calls (#2240)
dapr/docs: daprdocs/content/en/operations/troubleshooting/api-logs-troubleshooting.md

---
type: docs
title: "Dapr API Logs"
linkTitle: "API Logs"
weight: 3000
description: "Understand how API logging works in Dapr and how to view logs"
---

API logging enables you to see the API calls from your application to the Dapr sidecar and debug issues as a result with different verbosity levels. You can also combine Dapr API logging with Dapr log events (see [configure and view Dapr Logs]({{< ref "logs-troubleshooting.md" >}}) into the output, if you want to use the logging capabilities together.

## Overview

API logs have different, configurable verbosity levels and is applicable for both HTTP and GRPC calls.

> The levels outlined below are the same for both system components and the Dapr sidecar process/container:

Reviewer: Question: I presume that API logs has nothing to do with system components, such as placement and sentry services? If so then I suggest removing this sentence. Do you agree?
```suggestion
```

1. info
2. debug

The default level is debug, which provides a balanced amount of information for operating Dapr in normal conditions.

To set the output level, you can use the `--api-log-level` command-line option. For example:

```bash
./daprd --api-log-level info
./daprd --api-log-level debug
```

This starts the Dapr runtime with a api log level of `info` and `debug` accordingly.

## Configuring API logging in self hosted mode

To set the log level when running your app with the Dapr CLI, pass the `api-log-level` param:

```bash
dapr run --api-log-level info node myapp.js
```

> As outlined above, Dapr binary takes a `--api-log-level` argument.

Reviewer: Unnecessary sentence
```suggestion
```

> ### Viewing API logs on self hosted mode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Viewing API logs in self hosted mode
```

---
type: docs
title: "Dapr API Logs"
linkTitle: "API Logs"

> weight: 2000

Reviewer: ```suggestion
weight: 3000
```

description: "Understand how API logging works in Dapr and how to view logs"
---

> This section will assist you in understanding how Dapr API logging works in Dapr, viewing logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
API logging enables you to see the API calls from your application to the Dapr sidecar and debug issues as a result with different verbosity levels. You can also combine Dapr API logging with Dapr log events (see [configure and view Dapr Logs]({{< ref "logs-troubleshooting.md" >}}) into the output, if you want to use the logging capabilities together. 
```
Also another question that needs to be clarifies, can you turn on structured logging for the API logs. Per this article https://docs.dapr.io/operations/monitoring/logging/logs/. . I do hope so and if so, then we should say so, including adding a reference to this doc link at the end of this article

## Overview

> API logs have different, configurable verbosity levels. The API logging is availbale for both HTTP and GRPC calls

Reviewer: ```suggestion
API logs have different, configurable verbosity levels and is applicable for both HTTP and GRPC calls.
```

The levels outlined below are the same for both system components and the Dapr sidecar process/container:

1. info
2. debug

The default level is debug, which provides a balanced amount of information for operating Dapr in normal conditions.

To set the output level, you can use the `--api-log-level` command-line option. For example:

```bash
./daprd --api-log-level info
./daprd --api-log-level debug
```

> This will start the Dapr runtime binary with a log level of `info` and `debug` accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This starts the Dapr runtime with a log level of `info` and `debug` accordingly.
```

> ## Logs in stand-alone mode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configuring API logging in self hosted mode
```

To set the log level when running your app with the Dapr CLI, pass the `api-log-level` param:

```bash
dapr run --api-log-level info node myapp.js
```

> As outlined above, every Dapr binary takes a `--api-log-level` argument.

Reviewer: This is not true? Surely this is a just daprd.exe (as opposed to Placement service, Sentry service etc).

Author: Yea. It is only dapr.exe

> ### Viewing Logs on Standalone Mode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Viewing API logs on self hosted mode
```

> When running Dapr with the Dapr CLI, both your app's log output and the runtime's output will be redirected to the same session, for easy debugging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When running Dapr with the Dapr CLI, both your app's log output and the Dapr runtime log output are redirected to the same session, for easy debugging.
```

> For example, this is the output when running Dapr:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The below example is for info level API logging:

Reviewer: Can you also describe here, what the example is showing? For instance it would be good to say something like this, but please improve!!!

```suggestion
The example below starts the `order-processor` node application and shows API calls to save, retrieve and delete state from a statestore using`info` level API logging.
```

```bash

> dapr run --api-log-level info node myapp.js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dapr run --api-log-level info node myapp.js

```

> ℹ️  Starting Dapr with id Trackgreat-Lancer on port 56730

Reviewer: This is confusing. Why is the app-id here Trackgreat-Lancer and below it is order-processor.

Author: I will change it to order-processor.

✅  You are up and running! Both Dapr and your app logs will appear here.
.....
INFO[0000] HTTP API Called: POST /v1.0/state/statestore  app_id=order-processor instance=QTM-SWATHIKIL-1.redmond.corp.microsoft.com scope=dapr.runtime.http type=log ver=edge
== APP == INFO:root:Saving Order: {'orderId': '483'}
INFO[0000] HTTP API Called: GET /v1.0/state/statestore/483  app_id=order-processor instance=QTM-SWATHIKIL-1.redmond.corp.microsoft.com scope=dapr.runtime.http type=log ver=edge
== APP == INFO:root:Getting Order: {'orderId': '483'}
INFO[0000] HTTP API Called: DELETE /v1.0/state/statestore  app_id=order-processor instance=QTM-SWATHIKIL-1.redmond.corp.microsoft.com scope=dapr.runtime.http type=log ver=edge
== APP == INFO:root:Deleted Order: {'orderId': '483'}
INFO[0000] HTTP API Called: PUT /v1.0/metadata/cliPID    app_id=order-processor instance=QTM-SWATHIKIL-1.redmond.corp.microsoft.com scope=dapr.runtime.http type=log ver=edge
ℹ️  Updating metadata for app command: python3 app.py
INFO[0000] HTTP API Called: PUT /v1.0/metadata/appCommand  app_id=order-processor instance=QTM-SWATHIKIL-1.redmond.corp.microsoft.com scope=dapr.runtime.http type=log ver=edge

> ✅  You\'re up and running! Both Dapr and your app logs will appear here.

Reviewer: Why does this line suddenly appear! You started a new app instance? I suggest that you review the examples carefully

INFO[0001] HTTP API Called: POST /v1.0/state/statestore  app_id=order-processor instance=QTM-SWATHIKIL-1.redmond.corp.microsoft.com scope=dapr.runtime.http type=log ver=edge
== APP == INFO:root:Saving Order: {'orderId': '230'}
INFO[0001] HTTP API Called: GET /v1.0/state/statestore/230  app_id=order-processor instance=QTM-SWATHIKIL-1.redmond.corp.microsoft.com scope=dapr.runtime.http type=log ver=edge
== APP == INFO:root:Getting Order: {'orderId': '230'}
```

> The below example is for debug level API logging

Reviewer: This example output is the same as above, when it should be debug output. Needs to be run with debug

```bash
dapr run --api-log-level info node myapp.js
ℹ️  Starting Dapr with id Trackgreat-Lancer on port 56730

> ✅  You are up and running! Both Dapr and your app logs will appear here.

Reviewer: Review this whole example. It looks wrong, as per comments above

Author: I modified the example.

DEBU[0000] HTTP API Called: DELETE /v1.0/state/statestore  app_id=order-processor instance=QTM-SWATHIKIL-1.redmond.corp.microsoft.com scope=dapr.runtime.http type=log ver=edge
== APP == INFO:root:Deleted Order: {'orderId': '483'}
DEBU[0000] HTTP API Called: PUT /v1.0/metadata/cliPID    app_id=order-processor instance=QTM-SWATHIKIL-1.redmond.corp.microsoft.com scope=dapr.runtime.http type=log ver=edge
ℹ️  Updating metadata for app command: python3 app.py
DEBU[0000] HTTP API Called: PUT /v1.0/metadata/appCommand  app_id=order-processor instance=QTM-SWATHIKIL-1.redmond.corp.microsoft.com scope=dapr.runtime.http type=log ver=edge
✅  You\'re up and running! Both Dapr and your app logs will appear here.

DEBU[0001] HTTP API Called: POST /v1.0/state/statestore  app_id=order-processor instance=QTM-SWATHIKIL-1.redmond.corp.microsoft.com scope=dapr.runtime.http type=log ver=edge
== APP == INFO:root:Saving Order: {'orderId': '230'}
DEBU[0001] HTTP API Called: GET /v1.0/state/statestore/230  app_id=order-processor instance=QTM-SWATHIKIL-1.redmond.corp.microsoft.com scope=dapr.runtime.http type=log ver=edge
== APP == INFO:root:Getting Order: {'orderId': '230'}
```

> ## Logs in Kubernetes mode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##  Configuring API logging in Kubernetes
```

You can set the log level individually for every sidecar by providing the following annotation in your pod spec template:

```yml
annotations:
  dapr.io/api-log-level: "info"
```

or

```yml
annotations:
  dapr.io/api-log-level: "debug"
```

> ### Viewing Logs on Kubernetes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Viewing API logs on Kubernetes
```

> Dapr logs are written to stdout and stderr. This section will guide you on how to view API logs on Kubernetes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dapr API logs are written to stdout and stderr and you can view API logs on Kubernetes.
```

See the kubernetes API logs by executing the below command.

```bash
kubectl logs <pod_name> daprd -n <name_space>
```

> The below example is for info level API logging in Kubernetes.

Reviewer: Same feedback as the self hosted example above. Add some more detail of what exactly the logs are showing, which APIs are called. It would have been nice to have these examples the same as the order-processor app in the self hosted app. However if you keep these is the app really called  "invokecaller-f4f949886-cbnmt" which sounds like a test app. It really helps if the app names are clearer, so is there a better example you can use here?

```suggestion
The example below show `info` level API logging in Kubernetes.
```

```bash
time="2022-03-18T21:03:00.03969986Z" level=debug msg="HTTP API Called: GET /v1.0/invoke/invoke-receiver/method/my-method" app_id=invoke-caller instance=invokecaller-56894979cd-rt87b scope=dapr.runtime.http type=log ver=edge
time="2022-03-18T21:03:00.271463876Z" level=debug msg="HTTP API Called: GET /v1.0/invoke/invoke-receiver/method/my-method" app_id=invoke-caller instance=invokecaller-56894979cd-rt87b scope=dapr.runtime.http type=log ver=edge
time="2022-03-18T21:03:00.492570204Z" level=debug msg="HTTP API Called: GET /v1.0/invoke/invoke-receiver/method/my-method" app_id=invoke-caller instance=invokecaller-56894979cd-rt87b scope=dapr.runtime.http type=log ver=edge
time="2022-03-18T21:03:00.705486991Z" level=debug msg="HTTP API Called: GET /v1.0/invoke/invoke-receiver/method/my-method" app_id=invoke-caller instance=invokecaller-56894979cd-rt87b scope=dapr.runtime.http type=log ver=edge
time="2022-03-18T21:03:00.916868445Z" level=debug msg="HTTP API Called: GET /v1.0/invoke/invoke-receiver/method/my-method" app_id=invoke-caller instance=invokecaller-56894979cd-rt87b scope=dapr.runtime.http type=log ver=edge
```

> *Note: Both HTTP and gRPC API call logs are shown based on the type of API or the service*

Reviewer: What does this sentence mean?

Author: I am trying to say this is available for both http and grpc API calls.

Author: I think this point is already covered in the above description. Hence, removing this line.
